editHidan &#160;&#91;1&#93;	

	

飛段 Hidan

Immortal Bloodthirsty Killer (不死身の殺人鬼&#44; Fujimi no Satsujinki&#44; Viz: Immortal Butcher)&#91;2&#93;

        	
Debut
		
Manga
      	Naruto Chapter #312
      	
Anime
      	Naruto Shippūden Episode #71
     	
Novel
      	Akatsuki Hiden: Evil Flowers in Full Bloom
      	
Movie
      	Road to Ninja: Naruto the Movie
      	
Game
      	Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Ninja Taisen! EX 3
      	
OVA
      	Naruto Shippūden: UNSG anime cutscenes
      	
Appears in
		Anime, Manga, Novel, Game, Movie
		
Voice Actors
		
Japanese
        	
Masaki Terasoma 

        	
English
        	
Chris Edgerly 

Wally Wingert   (Naruto Shippūden: Clash of Ninja Revolution 3)

        	
Personal
		
Birthdate
        	 April 2 
        	
Sex
        	 Male
        	
Age
        	
Part II: 22

       	
Status
		Incapacitated
        	
Height
        	
Part II: 177.1  cm1.771&#160;m <br />5.81&#160;ft <br />69.724&#160;in <br />

        	
Weight
        	
Part II: 56.8  kg125.223&#160;lb <br />

        	
Blood type
		B
		
Classification
        	
S-rank

Missing-nin

        	
Affiliation
        	
 Yugakure

 Akatsuki

        	
Partner
        	
Kakuzu

        	
Jutsu	

Curse Technique: Death Controlling Possessed Blood
	
	
Tools	

Retractable Spear

Triple-Bladed Scythe
	
	

Hidan (飛段) is an S-rank missing-nin who defected from Yugakure and later joined the Akatsuki. He is a  devout worshipper of Jashin, and takes it upon himself to be a missionary of the faith. As a member of the Akatsuki, he was partnered with Kakuzu, despite the pair's somewhat mutual dislike of each other. He was also the second newest member of Akatsuki at the time of Tobi's introduction.&#91;3&#93; Kisame Hoshigaki laughingly referred to Hidan and Kakuzu as the Zombie Combo (ゾンビコンビ&#44; Zonbi Konbi&#44; English TV: Zombie Pair) due to their immortality.&#91;4&#93;

Contents

1 Background

2 Personality

3 Appearance

4 Abilities

4.1 Immortality

4.2 Physical Prowess

4.3 Jujutsu

4.4 Stats

5 Part II

5.1 Kazekage Rescue Mission

5.2 Akatsuki Suppression Mission

5.3 Power

5.4 Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

6 Legacy

7 In Other Media

7.1 Video Games

8 Creation and Conception

9 Trivia

10 Quotes

11 References

Background[]

During his childhood, after hearing rumours about the Valley of Hell, Hidan went and found it out of curiosity. There, he was disgusted by the smell of sulphur, and discovered corpses all over the area. After returning and telling others of the corpses, they weren't surprised that the Chinoike Clan couldn't survive living in the valley, prompting Hidan to correct their assumptions and informing them that the bodies weren't skeletons but actual bodies, with their blood not dry. His story led to people suspecting Hidan of murdering them, as well as Yugakure ninja being dispatched to the area to investigate, during which they determined the slaughter to be a clan act.&#91;5&#93;

After Yugakure deteriorated from a shinobi village to a tourist site, Hidan became infuriated with how things were turning out. He believed that the shinobi that resided there were meant to kill, and thus slaughtered his neighbours before leaving Yugakure, and joining the cult-like faith known as Jashin, a religion that worshipped a deity of the same name.&#91;1&#93; The primary teaching of this faith appears to be outright slaughter of those one considers their neighbours, where anything less than utter destruction is considered a sin.&#91;6&#93; Through experiments with Jashin's secret technique, Hidan was granted immortality.

In the anime, Yugakure requested that Akatsuki eliminate Hidan for his homicidal butchering spree, leading to Pain dispatching Itachi Uchiha, Konan and Kakuzu to handle the matter. Upon Hidan encountering the organisation, he attempted to kill Kakuzu, and managed to destroy one of his hearts. The confrontation lead to Konan offering Hidan the chance to join their organisation, which he accepted,&#91;7&#93; mainly because he took an interest in Kakuzu since he was a pioneer in immortality as well.&#91;8&#93; After joining, he declared that he was still going to continue with his personal mission of preaching Jashinism, which Akatsuki had no qualms with. He was given a ring with the character for three on it, and partnered with Kakuzu, and tasked with capturing the Two-Tails jinchūriki.

Some time later, Hidan and Kakuzu met with Sasori and Deidara to discuss their new missions assigned by Akatsuki. After Kakuzu said they had a choice between a money-making mission and a war-mission, he chose the money mission after Sasori and Deidara showed no interest in it, much to Hidan's annoyance.&#91;9&#93; Having been tasked with capturing the Seven-Tails jinchūriki, Hidan accompanied Kakuzu with tracking his target down. Upon encountering Fū, Hidan was baffled when she boldly asked to befriend Kakuzu, despite her being well aware of the rogue shinobi's history.&#91;10&#93;

Personality[]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Hidan and Kakuzu in the midst of an argument.
 		 	 
Hidan was a very foul-mouthed and disrespectful young man; he frequently used profanity and complained towards allies and opponents alike, despite being a "highly religious" person. He rarely used honourifics when speaking, and, even then, usually as a form of sarcasm: for example calling Deidara "Deidara-chan".&#91;11&#93; He was the only member of Akatsuki who did not respect their leader Pain, and openly declared his willingness to kill him around others. The only respect he ever seemed to give was to Jashin, and even then he was quite willing to use his name as an insult, and found some of the rituals and practices of his faith to be annoyingly tedious. He openly held his partner, Kakuzu, in contempt for his habits of blasphemy, greed, and Kakuzu's frequent ridicule of Hidan's religion and battle style. By his claim, despite being close to Kakuzu in physical proximity, Hidan would never consider him to be a "neighbour" (in Jashinist definition, someone emotionally close), as he outright despised Kakuzu. Despite this, whenever Hidan was in the mood to kill, the two worked together flawlessly in battle, and from his panicked reaction when he almost killed Kakuzu while being possessed by Shikamaru's technique, it can be infered that he did care somewhat for his partner's wellbeing.

Hidan had absolutely no moral restraints regarding the people he killed; he considered slaughter a religious calling, and often took considerable pleasure in making his opponents' deaths as painful as possible. He firmly believed that shinobi were meant to kill and revel in violence, and found his village's deterioration into peace and disarmament to be infuriating, resulting in him slaughtering his neighbours before defecting. Hidan is sadistic and enjoys torturing his opponents. The amulet around his neck was a symbol of Jashin, and he used it to pray to his god before battling, requesting a good kill, or (when he was not allowed to) for forgiveness.&#91;12&#93; Given the requirements of his voodoo-like curse ritual, he was quite willing to inflict pain and injuries on himself, and showing a masochist side as he openly relished the shared pain between him and the cursed victim. Despite this, he reacted "normally" (that is, he didn't enjoy the pain) to being injured by someone else, or when the opponent didn't share the pain.

Hidan's behaviour in the anime bordered on insanity; he was frequently heard shrieking loudly while attacking, and laughed maniacally when he was about to kill Asuma Sarutobi. Hidan also appeared to be quite spiteful towards his enemies (and nearly everyone else), even commenting to Shikamaru Nara that "I've been waiting for this" ("this" referring to using his ceremony to kill Shikamaru).

However, his immortality had made him arrogant, and he frequently engaged opponents with no regard for strategy, save to acquire some of their blood. Although ridiculed for his foolishness by Kakuzu and Shikamaru alike, being obviously inferior in tactical genius to either of them, and even admitting that he was not very intelligent himself, he was able to analyse the nature and limits of Shikamaru's Shadow Imitation Technique, and conducted battle accordingly (though he retained his arrogant attitude even under these circumstances). Interestingly, he seemed to panic when Shikamaru took control of his body, shouting at Kakuzu to do something in a rather frantic voice. He didn't particularly like it when Kakuzu assisted in his battles, and only called for his help when he decided he needed it. Kakuzu tended to return the favour by coming in "late" and letting Hidan be wounded (though still alive) as punishment for underestimating his opponents. After his head was reattached, he showed a great hatred towards Asuma. In the anime, after being recreated, Hidan stated that being controlled by Kabuto Yakushi was the worst.&#91;13&#93;

Despite his disrespectful and unlikable mannerisms, Hidan showed genuine respect towards those who showed interest in Jashin, seen as when Hidan eagerly explained the "benefits" about the cult to Ameyuki, and despite being adamant to kill him as another sacrifice, willingly delayed the killing after Ameyuki's desire to make a sacrifice of his own, and upon witnessing Ameyuki single-handedly destroy Shangri-la, Hidan openly exclaimed that he would celebrate Ameyuki as a martyr.&#91;14&#93; He also respected other forms of religion to a certain degree, as he disliked the idea of attacking the Fire Temple for the sake of money, condemning Kakuzu as blasphemous for doing so.

Appearance[]

Hidan's attire before joining the Akatsuki.

Hidan's appearance wearing the Akatsuki cloak.

Hidan in his half-torn Akatsuki attire.

1/3

Hidan has medium-length grey hair that was slicked back and distinctive purple eyes. Before joining the Akatsuki, he wore no shirt, had bandages wrapped around his stomach, wore maroon pants with long, black shinobi sandals (each bearing an attached zipper attached). After joining the Akatsuki, he remained with no shirt, but bears the organisation's cloak, which he kept slightly opened, revealing his Yugakure forehead protector around his neck and Jashin amulet; his forehead protector bore a slash across the village symbol, signifying he severed ties with it. He changes his bottoms to grey pants with matching shinobi sandals. He also wore dark green nail polish and his orange Akatsuki ring on his left index finger, which bears the kanji for "three" (三&#44; san). When not fighting, he was always seen with his Triple-Bladed Scythe on his back. After his fight with Asuma, Hidan lost part of his left ear and Kakuzu stitched his neck after he was briefly decapitated.

In the Power arc, upon being recreated, Hidan initially lacked clothing, but later wore a black cloak with red lining, similar to the one worn by Kabuto and the reincarnated Akatsuki members at the time. Rather than the purple eyes of his original self, the recreated Hidan possessed eyes with dark grey sclera and white, snake-like irides. When Kabuto used a talisman to take full control of Hidan, his eyes instead had black sclera and white, pupil-less irides.

Abilities[]

Hidan is a very powerful shinobi, whose skills lead to Yugakure choosing to not deal with the S-rank missing-nin, as there wasn't a ninja in the village that could take him on.&#91;5&#93; His skills were of a high enough standard to be recruited by Akatsuki, where alongside his partner Kakuzu, he defeated the Two-Tails' jinchūriki in her Tailed Beast Mode, as well as Asuma, one of the Konohagakure's top jōnin.

Immortality[]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Hidan enduring a fatal wound.
 		 	 
As a result of extensive experimenting with the Jashinists' various techniques, Hidan's main advantage is his inability to die from virtually all causes, with the exception of malnutrition.&#91;15&#93; His immortality allows him to survive numerous fatal injuries,&#91;16&#93; and almost any form of dismemberment; he even retained his ability to speak after having his head cut off.&#91;17&#93; However, his head still needed to be connected to his body in order to control it,&#91;18&#93; requiring Kakuzu to reattach it, and other body parts, when needed.&#91;19&#93; Even Shikamaru's attempt to blow Hidan into pieces using hundreds of explosive tags adhered to his entire body only succeeded in decapitating him and damaging his body (after weakening the tendons that Kakuzu used to re-attach his head). Even though he could survive most physical attacks, even ones that actually impaled him, he was still susceptible to pain, which he came to find pleasure in at the expense of his opponents. 

This inability to die was the primary reason for Hidan's partnership with Kakuzu. Since Kakuzu couldn't kill him, Kakuzu didn't need to find new partners after his fits of rage.&#91;20&#93; Although the two disliked working together, this advantage made them the ideal team. His immortality was exploited by Kakuzu, whose destructive techniques could be utilised to their full extent without fear of harming Hidan (as demonstrated in their combo involving Hidan distracting an opponent with vicious attacks while one of Kakuzu's hearts used Wind Release: Pressure Damage on both targets).

Furthermore, Hidan also has impressive healing abilities with the greatest example of this being how rapidly he healed from numerous physical injuries he underwent during his battle against Asuma and Shikamaru. Mere moments after that battle, he had been completely healed from all of his wounds and the damages he was subjected to such as getting his rib cage crushed by two kunai blades,&#91;21&#93; piercing his leg,&#91;22&#93; getting his whole body perforated by Shikamaru's shadow,&#91;23&#93; stabbing his chest with his retractable spear,&#91;24&#93; having his scythe piercing his abdomen and go through his back,&#91;25&#93; and getting his neck sliced then reattached.&#91;26&#93; Even his burn scars inflicted by Asuma's Fire Release: Ash Pile Burning completely vanished a mere couple of days later.

Physical Prowess[]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Hidan wielding his scythe.
 		 	 
In battle, Hidan is shown to be very skilled in bukijutsu. He wielded a Triple-Bladed Scythe that he used as a short and long-range weapon. Despite its large and dangerous shape, Shikamaru speculated it was intended to draw blood, instead of inflicting fatal damage. He controlled it with a long metal cable that was connected to a coil hidden under his robe. He is exceptionally skilled at wielding it, capable of deflecting a swarm of shuriken thrown at close range. He has also demonstrated tremendous aim and control of where and how it will strike, making it highly difficult for his opponents to predict the weapon's path. The unusual curvilinear trajectory that it took made it even more unpredictable, and Hidan was shown to be capable of causing the scythe to swerve perpendicularly and unexpectedly at a target even though the scythe was quite far from him. However, during his final battle against Kakashi and Team Asuma, the cable was destroyed by an explosive tag attached to a kunai thrown by Shikamaru. Hidan stated that the large size inhibited his attack speed, claiming he was the slowest attacker in Akatsuki.&#91;27&#93;

Nevertheless, Hidan is extremely agile, having tremendous acrobatic prowess and dexterity in avoiding attacks, able to nimbly evade Shikamaru's shadow while skilfully manipulating his scythe in mid-air.&#91;28&#93; Hidan's proficiency in evasion made it impossible for Asuma to land a single blow on him using taijutsu without Hidan being immobilised by Shikamaru's Shadow Imitation Technique.&#91;29&#93; He could also evade a massive fire ball fired at him at point-blank range, which reduced the building he was standing into rubble. He was also shown to be capable of dodging Shikamaru's Chakra Blade aimed at him in mid-air, by thrusting his scythe into the trunk of a tree and using it as a stand, halting his fall and making the blade miss by a margin.

Apart from his immortality, Hidan possessed a tremendous level of durability and stamina, enduring massive fatal injuries and battling for considerable periods of time with no signs of fatigue. Moreover, his immortal body's durability is so great that it could withstand virtually any form of damage and still function properly, only dismemberment via cutting was seen to be able to incapacitate him. Hidan is also invulnerable to injuries that should normally maim him despite him being immortal such as bone and muscle damages, as seen when he pierced his own femur during his fight against Asuma. The latter to whom the same damages were also inflicted due to Hidan's curse could hardly stand and was limping by sheer willpower.&#91;30&#93; Another testament to his great durability similar to the latter is the fact that Asuma's Fire Release: Ash Pile Burning could maim his own arm but not Hidan's.&#91;31&#93; Despite his arms being severely damaged by Shikamaru's Shadow Sewing Technique, Hidan was still steadily dual wielding his weapons.&#91;23&#93; Even taking a direct hit from Kakuzu's Wind Release: Pressure Damage, which hollowed out an entire area, did not leave any visible damage on Hidan's body.

Jujutsu[]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Hidan preparing his ritual.
 		 	 
Using his weapon, Hidan makes every attempt to acquire an opponent's blood where, upon consuming it, he draws the Jashin symbol on the ground. This process somehow "links" his body with his opponent's.&#91;32&#93; Once this link is established, Hidan takes on a Grim Reaper-like appearance, with black skin and white bone-like markings.&#91;33&#93; In this state, he is essentially a living voodoo doll for his opponent; any damage that is done to him is also inflicted on the opponent.&#91;22&#93; Hidan referred to this as his "curse", and he was fond of toying with his victims by inflicting non-fatal injuries with his retractable spears, while taking obvious pleasure in their shared pain.&#91;34&#93; Once he was done playing with the opponent, or if he wanted to kill them quickly, he impaled himself through the heart killing his opponent in the process,&#91;35&#93; and then relishing it in intense satisfaction.

Despite its effectiveness, the curse has many requirements, and can be a slow technique to employ. The curse can be avoided if the opponent happens to know what to look out for, and knows of Hidan's inability to die. The link between Hidan's curse and his opponent could be broken prematurely if Hidan was removed from the symbol;&#91;36&#93; However, Hidan would remain in his transformed state, allowing the curse to be easily re-established by him simply entering the symbol's borders once more.&#91;37&#93;

Stats[]

Databook
	
Ninjutsu
	
Taijutsu
	
Genjutsu
	
Intelligence
	
Strength
	
Speed
	
Stamina
	
Hand seals
	
Total
	

Third
	
5
	
4.5
	
3
	
3
	
4
	
3.5
	
5
	
3.5
	
31.5
	

Part II[]

Kazekage Rescue Mission[]

Main article: Kazekage Rescue Mission
Alongside the rest of Akatsuki, Hidan assists in the sealing of the One-Tailed Shukaku. When Zetsu reveals their enemy's presence, Hidan offers to take on Might Guy because of an apparent failure to capture a jinchūriki, however Kisame offers instead claiming he wanted to get revenge for Guy attacking him three years prior. Pain agrees to this, much to Hidan's annoyance, stating Kisame had the most chakra in all of Akatsuki and was suitable. Later when more enemies approached, Hidan again wanted to, but this time Itachi was selected instead.

Akatsuki Suppression Mission[]

Main article: Akatsuki Suppression Mission

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Hidan battling the Two-Tails.
 		 	 
Hidan and Kakuzu made their first actual appearance after cornering Yugito Nii, the jinchūriki of the Two-Tails, in the sewers of Kumogakure. Initially, Hidan offered Yugito the option of surrender, claiming his faith did not allow him to fight an opponent only to leave them half-dead (for the capture of her tailed beast).&#91;38&#93; Yugito refused his offer, and transformed herself into the Two-Tails, but the Akatsuki duo still managed to defeat her, and gave her to Zetsu, before they continued to the Land of Fire.

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Kakuzu and Hidan confront Chiriku.
 		 	 
Upon arrival in the Land of Fire, Hidan begrudgingly joined Kakuzu in attacking the Fire Temple, so that they could collect the bounty on the head monk, Chiriku.&#91;39&#93; Ultimately, Chiriku and his numerous subordinates were slaughtered, and Hidan repeated his lengthy ritual. Afterwards, Hidan reluctantly travelled with Kakuzu to take the monk's body to the nearest bounty station.

Reaching the bounty station, Hidan opted to stay outside, not liking the fact that the station was hidden inside a lavatory that smelled particularly foul. While he waited for Kakuzu to collect the money, Hidan was ambushed by Asuma Sarutobi, Shikamaru Nara, Kotetsu Hagane, and Izumo Kamizuki. Despite being immobilised, and stabbed in the chest by two large kunai,&#91;21&#93; Hidan asked who the shinobi were while acting as though he did not even register the fatal blows, much to the Konoha group's surprise.

Kakuzu soon arrived, forcing Hidan's assailants to fall back. Instructing Kakuzu to leave the battle to him, Hidan exchanged blows with Asuma, eventually succeeding in obtaining some blood and initiating his curse, right before Asuma used Fire Release: Ash Pile Burning on him, causing Asuma to suffer from third degree burns. Not realising what Hidan had done, Asuma charged, and fell over in pain when Hidan stabbed himself in the leg. As Hidan prepared to kill Asuma, Shikamaru, realising what was going on, again immobilised Hidan, but had difficulty maintaining his hold. While Hidan was momentarily restrained, Shikamaru analysed everything Hidan had said and done up to that point, eventually figuring out the weakness of Hidan's technique.&#91;40&#93; With that epiphany, Shikamaru managed to force Hidan from the safety of his symbol, temporarily releasing Asuma from Hidan's curse. 

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Hidan defeats Asuma.
 		 	 
After cutting Hidan's ear, to ensure he was then freed from the curse, Asuma decapitated Hidan. To the Konoha ninja's horror, the severed head loudly cursed and swore at Asuma for doing so, and then at Kakuzu for not stopping them. Kakuzu casually shrugged this off, as he felt it was Hidan's fault for telling him to not interfere.&#91;17&#93;&#91;41&#93; While Asuma and the others stood shocked by Hidan's survival, Kakuzu reattached Hidan's head to his body, again surprising the Konoha ninja. As Kakuzu dealt with Kotetsu and Izumo, Hidan re-entered his symbol, and linked himself once more to Asuma. Hidan swung his scythe at Asuma, only for Asuma to duck and the scythe to bury itself into Hidan's own vital organs. Asuma doubled over with pain, and as Shikamaru rushed to Asuma's aid, Hidan used the opportunity to stab himself through the heart with his spear, which fatally injured Asuma. Asuma coughed up blood, and collapsed, as Hidan smiled enjoyably, with Izumo, Kotetsu and Shikamaru watching in sorrow and horror. Shikamaru loudly swore at Hidan, and charged at him, but collapsed from exhaustion. 

Reinforcements from Konoha arrived as Shikamaru collapsed. Although Hidan expressed interest in getting to kill them as well, the Akatsuki leader called him and Kakuzu away. Angry, and promising to kill the Konoha ninja later, Hidan left with Kakuzu to a secluded area, where they spent three days sealing the Two-Tails (and, in the manga, another three days sealing the Three-Tails).

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Hidan and Kakuzu with all his hearts.
 		 	 
Once the sealing was over, Hidan and Kakuzu headed for Konoha, eager to continue their battle. Along the way, the two were once again ambushed by Shikamaru, the latter having waited for them, this time accompanied by the other remaining members of Team Asuma. Although Kakuzu managed to escape from Shikamaru's shadow, Hidan was left under Shikamaru's control, and was forced to fight his partner.

When Kakuzu was apparently killed by Kakashi Hatake, Kakashi prepared to finish Hidan as well, but was quickly repelled by a surprisingly alive Kakuzu. Freed from Shikamaru's shadow, due to its inherent time limit, Hidan charged at Kakashi, while Kakuzu fired blasts of elemental attacks at the duo's opponents. Recognising that the two-man Akatsuki team was too powerful as a pair, and needed to be separated, Shikamaru volunteered to draw the immortal away.&#91;42&#93; Hidan, having been trapped by Shikamaru's technique so many times, was determined not to fall prey to it again, and made sure to avoid the shadows. In doing so, Hidan mocked Shikamaru for fighting in a sneaky and distant manner. While focusing on the shadow attacks, Hidan didn't notice Shikamaru suddenly appearing close enough to stun him with a punch to the face. Hidan blocked this with his hand, connecting their shadows and as a result, he was trapped by Shikamaru's shadow, and was led away by him.&#91;43&#93;

Hidan was led towards an area that was surrounded with wire and explosive tags, which Shikamaru had prepared in advance. However, Hidan had no desire to escape, and he attacked Shikamaru when the shadow technique wore off. It appeared as though he had acquired some of Shikamaru's blood. Quickly drawing his symbol and transforming, Hidan seemingly killed Shikamaru. Once Hidan departed, the "fallen" Shikamaru jumped up, still alive, and tried to decapitate Hidan from behind, although he did fail to make a cut deep enough. Surprised that Shikamaru was alive, Hidan learned he had been tricked into consuming Kakuzu's blood, so he, in effect, destroyed one of Kakuzu's hearts.&#91;44&#93; 

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Hidan caught by Shikamaru.
 		 	 
As Hidan attempted to kill Shikamaru in retaliation, Hidan was again stopped by Shikamaru's shadow. With Hidan restrained, Shikamaru covered Hidan with the surrounding explosive tags, tying Hidan to the spot. With Hidan unable to move, Shikamaru activated a prepared mark to cause the ground beneath Hidan to break away. He then informed Hidan that the forest that they were in belonged to his clan, and that they would ensure that Hidan remained bound to it for eternity. Finally, having a chance to avenge Asuma's death, Shikamaru lit a cigarette (in the anime, it was changed to Asuma's lighter) and tossed it at Hidan, causing the explosive tags to detonate.&#91;45&#93; 

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Hidan's final moments
 		 	 
Hidan was literally blown to bits. As Hidan's remains fell into the pit below, his detached head promised to kill Shikamaru in any way possible. Shikamaru caused the pit to collapse, trapping the screaming Hidan beneath the rubble.&#91;46&#93;

Though believed dead by Akatsuki,&#91;47&#93; Hidan is in fact alive but is dying slowly from a lack of nutrition.&#91;15&#93;

Power[]

Main article: Power (Arc)

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Clone-Hidan vs. Yamato.
 		 	 
In the anime, a short while after the Five Kage Summit,&#91;48&#93; Kabuto scrounged some of Hidan's DNA from the Nara Clan Forest. Not long after the massacre of the Tonika villagers, Kabuto confronted Naruto Uzumaki and Sakura Haruno, who were investigating the incident. Kabuto then used the The Hole's water and his snakes to recreate Hidan, whom he then took control of with a talisman. The newly-formed Hidan was then sent into battle against Team Kakashi on Kabuto's orders, after using a scroll to summon the original Hidan's scythe, which had also been salvaged.&#91;49&#93; After a short fight, Kabuto retreated, having a snake ingest Clone-Hidan to transport him away. Later clothed in the attire of Kabuto and his reincarnated shinobi, Clone-Hidan's body remained dormant while Kabuto made adjustments to the technique.&#91;50&#93;

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Clone-Hidan and Deidara act as a diversion.
 		 	 
The next day, Clone-Hidan, with his original self's personality recreated, along with a reincarnated Deidara, killed the Hachō Village guards who were guarding The Hole as a diversion for Kabuto to sneak into the village, a fact that greatly annoyed Clone-Hidan. The two began bickering about their respective defeats, which nearly escalated into a fight between them until Yamato and Sai arrived with more Hachō guards.&#91;13&#93; After a Tailed Beast Ball fired by a clone of Naruto detonated near the two, they were recalled by Kabuto, with Clone-Hidan being consumed by a snake once again, despite attempting to resist.&#91;51&#93;

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Clone-Hidan breaks down.
 		 	 
When the Ama no Hoko was activated, Kabuto's snake released Clone-Hidan to battle against the Konoha shinobi, at which point he found himself facing Team Asuma with a desire to enact his revenge on Shikamaru. Clone-Hidan managed to obtain some of the team members' blood from their battle and fled towards the Jashin symbol he had previously created above The Hole. However, Shikamaru restrained Clone-Hidan as his body began to break down due to the short lifespan of the snakes comprising him, ultimately resulting in the clone's death.&#91;52&#93;

Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation[]

Main article: Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation
When Kakuzu was reincarnated during the Fourth Shinobi World War, he took Hidan's absence as proof that he was still alive.&#91;53&#93;

Legacy[]

After the end of the Fourth Shinobi World War, Ryūki, also a worshipper of Jashin, followed Hidan's footsteps by becoming immortal in order to bring death and destruction back to the world and establish himself as its ruler, proclaiming to be the "second coming of Hidan". Ryūki ultimately failed and was arrested by Konoha.&#91;54&#93;

In Other Media[]

Video Games[]

Hidan is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name	Japanese release	English release	
Jumputi Heroes	28 March 2018		
Naruto Mobile	2016	2016	
Naruto Shippūden: Clash of Ninja Revolution 3		17 November 2009	
Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Ninja Taisen! EX 3	27 November 2008		
Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Ninja Taisen! Special	2 December 2010		
Naruto Shippūden: Ninja Destiny 3	28 April 2009		
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Blazing	14 July 2016	24 August 2016	
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Heroes 3	10 December 2009	11 May 2010	
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Impact	20 October 2011	18 October 2011	
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 2	21 October 2010	19 October 2010	
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 3	18 April 2013	5 March 2013	
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4	4 February 2016	9 February 2016	
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Generations	23 February 2012	13 March 2012	
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Revolution	11 September 2014	16 September 2014	
Naruto to Boruto: Shinobi Striker	30 August 2018	31 August 2018	
Naruto x Boruto: Ninja Tribes	June 2019	June 2019	
Naruto x Boruto: Ninja Voltage	22 November 2017	22 November 2017	
Naruto x Boruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm Connections	16 November 2023	17 November 2023	
Naruto: Shinobi Collection	2014		
Naruto: Shinobi Collection Shippū Ranbu	27 July 2015		
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online	14 April 2013	20 July 2016	

It should be noted that while Hidan is known for mainly wielding his Triple-Bladed Scythe, in the Clash of Ninja series, he actually dual-wields his retractable pike in tandem with his main weapon. Also, Hidan uses praying motions in the place of actual hand-seal usage.

Creation and Conception[]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Concept designs for Hidan, by Masashi Kishimoto.
 		 	 
In Naruto Hiden: Sha no Sho Character Official Data Book, Kishimoto revealed that Hidan's design, with the skeletal patterns and scythe, were meant to resemble a shinigami (死神&#44; "death god," "grim reaper"), because "Hidan uses curses and things". He also noted that he originally planned for the scythe to have a number of special tricks, but "didn't have time to show them all". It also shows that Masashi meant for Hidan to have bangs.

Trivia[]

The first kanji in Hidan's name (飛) stands for hisha, the rook in shōgi. Similarly the first kanji in his partner Kakuzu's name stands for the kakugyō, the bishop piece in shōgi.
Hidan's name however, literally means "flying level/tier/stage".

In a 2010 Otonafami Magazine interview, Masashi Kishimoto stated that Hidan and Shikamaru were his favourite characters.

Hidan's Jashin amulet appears with the point of the triangle pointing upwards in the manga, and pointing down in the anime, but on episode 75, minute 19:05, it appears pointing upwards.

Before his début in the manga, a character with no clear similarities to Hidan appears during Akatsuki meetings. It is unknown if this is one of Kakuzu's previous partners or simply an early design for Hidan.&#91;55&#93;

Both Hidan's and Kakuzu's faces were on a pair of lanterns in the omake of Naruto: Shippūden episode 129, Hidan being to the left and Kakuzu being to the right.

According to the databook(s):
Hidan's hobby is "Jashinistic" activities.

Hidan's favourite food is spare ribs. His least favourite are any kind of vegetable or devotion cuisine.

Hidan's desired opponents are heretics.

Hidan's favourite words are "massacre" (殺戮&#44; satsuriku) and "Jashinism" ("ジャシン教"&#44; "Jashin-kyō").

Hidan is the only member of Nagato's Akatsuki to have never met Naruto Uzumaki. However, in the anime of Tsunade's Infinite Tsukuyomi dream, Naruto encounters Hidan.

In the "Creation of the Akatsuki" OVA featured in Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Revolution, Hidan was recruited by Orochimaru, Zetsu, and Kakuzu. However, in episode 457 of the anime, he was recruited by Itachi, Konan, and Kakuzu, with Orochimaru having already deserted the group by then.

According to his Naruto Mobile profile, Hidan constantly craved battle, which made it inevitable he would notice the emerging religion of Jashinism.&#91;56&#93;

Quotes[]

"Now! Let's savour the utmost of suffering together!"&#91;33&#93;

(To Kakuzu after being told not to die) "Every damn time… That's not something you say to me… If they can kill me, I couldn't be happier. Although… I don't think they can!"&#91;57&#93;

(To the Konoha shinobi) "Hell that hurts… You go and stab me all over… Damn both of you… Divine judgement awaits heathens ignorant to the pain of others."&#91;58&#93;

(After wounding Asuma) "Yeah hurts good doesn't it? Attacking the vitals is such a waste! This pain, this is the best! As the other dies, their agony radiates through my body! And living through it feels even better!"&#91;34&#93;

(To Shikamaru before being buried alive) "I'll never die… Even if you destroy my body, and I'm left with nothing but my head… I'll escape somehow… and when I do, I'll find you and bite your throat out!"&#91;59&#93;

References[]

↑ 1.0 1.1 Sha no Sho, pages 144–147

↑ Konoha Shinden chapter 12, page 8

↑ Naruto chapter 329, page 11

↑ Naruto chapter 353, page 11

↑ 5.0 5.1 Sasuke Shinden: Book of Sunrise

↑ Naruto chapter 314, page 7

↑ Naruto: Shippūden episode 457

↑ Third Databook — Deathless Combo

↑ Naruto: Shippūden episode 309

↑ Naruto: Shippūden episode 413

↑ Naruto chapter 332, page 6

↑ Naruto chapter 313, page 2

↑ 13.0 13.1 Naruto: Shippūden episode 292

↑ Akatsuki Hiden: Evil Flowers in Full Bloom

↑ 15.0 15.1 Naruto Second Fanbook, page 203

↑ Naruto chapter 323, page 1

↑ 17.0 17.1 Naruto chapter 325, page 16

↑ Naruto chapter 326, page 3

↑ Naruto chapter 326, pages 5-6

↑ Naruto chapter 322, page 5

↑ 21.0 21.1 Naruto chapter 322, page 17

↑ 22.0 22.1 Naruto chapter 324, page 4

↑ 23.0 23.1 Naruto chapter 325, page 9

↑ Naruto chapter 326, page 16

↑ Naruto chapter 326, page 12

↑ Naruto chapter 326, page 5

↑ Naruto chapter 312, page 15

↑ Naruto chapter 323, pages 11-12

↑ Naruto chapter 323, page 13

↑ Naruto chapter 325, page 10

↑ Naruto chapter 324, page 1

↑ Naruto chapter 322, pages 12-14

↑ 33.0 33.1 Naruto chapter 323, page 17

↑ 34.0 34.1 Naruto chapter 324, page 5

↑ Naruto chapter 326, pages 16-17

↑ Naruto chapter 325, page 2

↑ Naruto chapter 326, pages 13-14

↑ Naruto chapter 313, pages 6-7

↑ Naruto chapter 314, pages 8-9

↑ Naruto chapter 324, page 16

↑ Naruto chapter 325, pages 12-13

↑ Naruto chapter 335, page 10

↑ Naruto chapter 335, pages 15-17

↑ Naruto chapter 337, page 5

↑ Naruto chapter 338, pages 14-15

↑ Naruto: Shippūden episodes 86-87

↑ Naruto chapter 353, page 9

↑ Chikara Story

↑ Naruto: Shippūden episode 290

↑ Naruto: Shippūden episode 291

↑ Naruto: Shippūden episode 293

↑ Naruto: Shippūden episode 294

↑ Naruto chapter 530, page 3

↑ Konoha Shinden: Steam Ninja Scrolls

↑ Naruto chapter 238, pages 19-20

↑ Naruto Mobile Hidan (Blood Possession) Profile

↑ Naruto chapter 323, page 7

↑ Naruto chapter 323, page 9

↑ Naruto chapter 338, page 12