editSasori &#160;&#91;1&#93;&#91;2&#93;	

	

サソリ Sasori

Sasori of the Red Sand (赤砂のサソリ&#44; Akasuna no Sasori)&#91;3&#93;

Genius Modelling Specialist of the Puppet Brigade (傀儡部隊の天才造形師&#44; Kugutsu Butai no Tensai Zōkeishi&#44; English TV: The Legendary Master Craftsman of the Puppet Corps)&#91;3&#93;

        	
Debut
		
Manga
      	Naruto Chapter #247
      	
Anime
      	Naruto Shippūden Episode #2
     	
Novel
      	Akatsuki Hiden: Evil Flowers in Full Bloom
      	
Movie
      	Road to Ninja: Naruto the Movie
      	
Game
      	Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Ninja Taisen! EX
      	
OVA
      	Naruto Shippūden: UNSG anime cutscenes
      	
Appears in
		Anime, Manga, Novel, Game, Movie
		
Voice Actors
		
Japanese
        	
Takahiro Sakurai

Yutaka Aoyama   (Hiruko)

Akiko Yajima   (Child)

        	
English
        	
Johnny Yong Bosch   (Adult and Child in Episode 319)

J.B. Blanc   (Hiruko)

Kate Higgins   (Child)

        	
Personal
		
Birthdate
        	 November 8
        	
Sex
        	 Male
        	
Age
        	
Part II: 35

       	
Status
		Deceased
        	
Height
        	
Part II: 164.1 cm1.641&#160;m <br />5.384&#160;ft <br />64.606&#160;in <br />

        	
Weight
        	
Part II: 47.3 kg104.279&#160;lb <br />

        	
Blood type
		AB
		
Classification
        	
S-rank

Missing-nin

        	
Affiliation
        	
 Sunagakure

 Akatsuki

        	
Team
        	
 Puppet Brigade

 Surprise Attack and Diversion Platoon

        	
Partner
        	
Orochimaru

Deidara

        	
Rank
		
Ninja Registration
        	33-001
		
Academy Grad. Age
        	7
        	
Chūnin Prom. Age
        	8
        	
Family
		

Sasori's Father (Father)

Sasori's Mother (Mother)

Chiyo (Grandmother)

Ebizō (Granduncle)

		
	
Jutsu	

Iron Sand Drizzle

Iron Sand Gathering Assault

Iron Sand World Method

Iron Sand: Black Iron Wings

Memory-Concealing Manipulative Sand Technique

Prepared Puppet: Eight Waves of Needles

Puppet Performance: Skilful Achievement with a Human Body

Puppet Technique

Puppet Technique: Prosthetic Arm Senbon

Red Secret Technique: Performance of a Hundred Puppets

Sand Clone (Anime only)

Thousand Hands Manipulation Force
	
	
Tools	

Flamethrower

Hiruko

Hundred Puppet Army

Iron Sand

Kama

Karasu

Third Kazekage 

Komushi  (Anime only)

Kuroari

Mother and Father

Poison

Puppet Buzzsaw

Sand (Anime only)

Sanshōuo

Sasori 

Senbon

Sword

Water Stream Shooters (Anime only)
	
	

Sasori (サソリ), renowned as Sasori of the Red Sand (赤砂のサソリ&#44; Akasuna no Sasori), was an S-rank missing-nin from Sunagakure's Puppet Brigade and a member of Akatsuki, where he was partnered with Orochimaru and later Deidara.

Contents

1 Background

2 Personality

3 Appearance

4 Abilities

4.1 Puppet Mastery

4.1.1 Human Puppetry

4.1.2 Hiruko

4.1.3 Third Kazekage

4.1.4 Puppet Body

4.2 Intelligence

4.3 Stats

5 Part I

5.1 Sasuke Recovery Mission

5.2 The Fallen Castle

6 Part II

6.1 Kazekage Rescue Mission

6.2 Power

6.3 Fourth Shinobi World War: Countdown

6.4 Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

7 Legacy

8 In Other Media

8.1 Movies

8.1.1 Road to Ninja: Naruto the Movie

8.2 Video Games

9 Trivia

10 Quotes

11 References

Background[]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Sasori as a Suna shinobi.
 		 	  
When Sasori was young, his father and mother were killed by Sakumo Hatake in battle,&#91;4&#93; leaving him in the care of his grandmother, Chiyo. When Chiyo attempted to cheer him up by teaching him puppetry, Sasori's innate aptitude for the art became apparent, and he even began to devise masterful ways of eliminating a puppet master's weaknesses in battle. His skills even allowed him to create two puppets in the image of his parents in an attempt to discard the terrible loneliness he felt. However, as the puppets were unable to give him the real parental love that he desired, Sasori lost interest in them, and they later fell into Chiyo's possession. Sasori created many other ingenious puppets, including Kuroari, Karasu, and Sanshōuo.

During the Third Shinobi World War, the effectiveness of his puppets in spilling his enemies' blood on the sand gave rise to Sasori's moniker "Sasori of the Red Sand".&#91;5&#93; However, motivated by his desire to make works that last forever, Sasori began experimenting to create puppets out of people. In the anime, his only friend, Komushi, lost his right arm during his border control duty, so Sasori gave him a new puppet arm as a prosthetic limb. After Komushi perished, having accidentally ingested some of Sasori's poison, Sasori proceeded to turn him into one of his first human puppets.&#91;6&#93; Twenty years before the capture of Gaara, Sasori left Sunagakure;&#91;3&#93; it was around this time he converted his body into a puppet with his core of living flesh remaining as his only human part, thus appearing to maintain the youth of the time of his departure. It was also around this time Sasori secretly assassinated the Third Kazekage and made him into one of his human puppets.&#91;7&#93;

Sometime after becoming a missing-nin, Sasori was confronted by Konan and recruited into Akatsuki.&#91;8&#93; Initially declining, Konan opted to fight him, proposing if he lost he would join. Sasori complied and despite using his puppet body,&#91;9&#93; he ultimately lost and joined the organisation, being partnered up with Orochimaru.&#91;7&#93;

	 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Sasori receiving intel on Orochimaru from Kabuto.
 		 	 	

After joining the Akatsuki, he utilised his skills to create numerous spies like Yūra and Mukade from Suna as sleeper agents. Sasori was paired with Orochimaru, who shared his desire of an everlasting existence.&#91;10&#93; Later, Sasori joined his group in recruiting Deidara into Akatsuki. After Orochimaru left the Akatsuki following his failed attempt to take Itachi Uchiha's body, Sasori bore a grudge towards his former partner and sent Kabuto Yakushi to be his spy in Otogakure. Nevertheless, Sasori was unaware that Kabuto was working for Orochimaru long before he posed as an Akatsuki spy, as he and the rest of the Akatsuki thought that Kabuto joined Orochimaru's side after being dispelled of Sasori's brainwashing. In the anime, Sasori later learned of Orochimaru's whereabouts and joined Deidara to find him. Once tracking him down in the Land of Wind, Sasori unleashed his Third Kazekage puppet. Orochimaru, however, surprised Sasori by countering with a reincarnation of the actual Kazekage. The two missing-nin then pitted their respective pawns against each other and eventually the Third Kazekage proved stronger than the puppet. However, the Kazekage soon regained control of himself and forced a release of the technique, prompting Orochimaru to retreat. Deidara then unleashed a series of bombs on Orochimaru's hideout, hoping to kill the Konoha-nin. Sasori was left very annoyed that despite a thorough search, they could not find a body.&#91;11&#93;

Personality[]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Sasori comforting himself with his Mother and Father puppets.
 		 	  
Sasori grew up in a sad and lonely environment due to the absence of parental love. When introduced to the art of puppetry by his grandmother, Chiyo, he grew a little happier. He eventually created puppets in the likeness of his parents, but when he realised that the puppets could not give him the actual love that he desired, he became cold, aloof and led to his general disregard for human life. Sasori even went so far as to state that he would feel nothing if Chiyo died, as he claimed that his heart had become like his puppet body: without any emotions. Neither did Sasori have any loyalty for his village, as he defected to pursue personal interests and even kidnapped the Third Kazekage, which caused severe damage for Sunagakure, and then attack the village again twenty years after leaving. Despite his cruel and nihilistic nature, Sasori was also known to possess a very down-to-earth outlook on life, rarely getting worked up over obstacles that impeded his way. He rarely gave way to any strong emotions, and such instances that happened were often short-lived.

Sasori was also known for his impatience, as he repeatedly noted that he did not wish to wait or keep others waiting.&#91;12&#93; Despite this, he took his time in battling Kankurō when they first met due to his interest in fighting his old creations, which were handed down to a puppet master of the next generation.

Sasori and his second partner in Akatsuki, Deidara, both had conflicting views on art, and they frequently argued about their differing perspectives even having heated debates despite being ambushed by Gaara's rescue team, ignoring Naruto after blocking his attack.&#91;13&#93; Deidara maintained his belief that art was something transient that departs quickly, whereas Sasori believed that fine art was everlasting and remained far into the future. This reflected their individual natures; Deidara made clay sculptures which exploded, while Sasori created long-lasting puppets out of humans that never died. Nevertheless, although Deidara outwardly seemed to respect Sasori's beliefs, Sasori never respected Deidara's.

Sasori's ambition was to become an exquisite piece of art himself by turning his body into one of his own puppet works. Sasori adhered so strongly to his belief that true art was ever-lasting that he even went as far as to have his spy retrieve information on the Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation and human experiments.&#91;14&#93; Sasori abandoned this ambition after Kankurō told him that it was his creations that he put his heart and soul into that would last forever. After accepting Kankurō's view on eternal art, he entrusted his Mother and Father puppets to Kankurō and told him to pass them on to the next generation after he dies. In this moment, Sasori is shown to have an emotional side as well.

Sasori was also willing to accept the views of others on certain topics in contrast to Deidara, who stubbornly stood by his beliefs until the end. Sasori spared Kankurō during their first confrontation after the latter made a last attempt to attack him, but he notes that Kankurō's envenomed state would eventually lead to his death.

Possibly stemming from his lonely childhood, Sasori was entirely loyal to Akatsuki despite initially being strongarmed to join, so much that he vowed to kill his former partner, Orochimaru, for betraying the organisation.

Appearance[]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Sasori as a child.
 		 	 

Sasori before joining the Akatsuki.

Sasori inside Hiruko, adorned in his Akatsuki attire.

Sasori inside Hiruko, without his Akatsuki attire.

Sasori himself in his Akatsuki attire.

Sasori's true puppet body.

1/5

Sasori had wide greyish brown eyes which he inherited from his mother, and short, mousy red hair which he inherited from his father. He was usually seen with a hazy, dreamy look on his face. As a child, Sasori wore dark green robes with a pale poncho around them. As a teenager, while living in Sunagakure, he wore a purplish robe with the Sunagakure forehead protector. After leaving the village he was seen wearing the Suna flak jacket with a sleeveless undershirt, bandages around both arms, brown pants with an attached holster where he held his puppet summoning scroll, and brown shinobi sandals. After joining the Akatsuki and converting himself into a puppet in the likeness of his original body, Sasori's hair became slightly more messy, and wore his Akatsuki robe along with a purple Akatsuki ring on his left thumb that bears the kanji for "jewel" or "sphere" (玉&#44; gyoku). He also wore teal nail polish on his fingernails. Even though Sasori still possessed his Sunagakure forehead protector that was slashed out in the middle, he kept it on his person instead of wearing it.

Sasori's puppet body consisted of a pair of spinning claws attached to his lower back, a holder for four scrolls on his back, a stinger in the empty and open stomach cavity, a compartment in his right chest, and a 'core of living flesh' (生身の核&#44; namami no kaku) in the left which had the kanji for "scorpion" (蠍&#44; sasori) painted on it. In his exposed state, Sasori's eyes would also be wide open in a maniacal way, as opposed to his normal calm looking eyes.

After Kabuto reincarnated him, Sasori displayed the black sclerae and darker irides seen in other reincarnated shinobi. In place of his previous clothing, Sasori, like the other reincarnated Akatsuki members, wore a maroon cloak with beige lining. Despite being 35 years old at the time of death, his reincarnated form takes that of his teenage years, how he looked before he converted himself.

Abilities[]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Sasori creates a sand clone through his puppet Hiruko.
 		 	 
Sasori was a very powerful shinobi, being able to, with effort, defeat and kill the Third Kazekage, the strongest ninja in Suna's history. His use of his puppets was greatly feared throughout the Third Shinobi World War as he turned the sand red with blood, giving him the nickname, "Sasori of the Red Sand". His legacy was such that Kankurō knew of and feared him despite being born after Sasori already left the village.&#91;15&#93; Deidara himself even admitted that Sasori was the stronger of the two of them.&#91;16&#93; 

Puppet Mastery[]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Sasori using Red Secret Technique: Performance of a Hundred Puppets
 		 	 
Trained by his powerful grandmother, Chiyo, in the art of puppetry, Sasori was an extremely powerful puppeteer and had great skill in creating and controlling his puppets. He created a number of ingenious ones including the three main puppets that Kankurō uses, which were made in Sunagakure before he fled.&#91;15&#93; At the time of his final battle with Sakura and Chiyo, Sasori had 298 human puppets in his collection.&#91;17&#93; His status as a puppet master offered him a tremendous advantage against other puppeteer shinobi, especially if the puppets they were using happened to be ones that he created, as seen in his battle against Kankurō. As puppets are usually installed with long-range weapons, Sasori was an expert at fighting at long distances; however, due to his innovative designs such as a puppet armor and self-conversion, he can fight just as well in close quarter combat. He had tremendous skill with chakra threads, suppressing them to the point that they became invisible and he could control upwards to 100 puppets — a feat thought impossible for ordinary shinobi.&#91;2&#93; Sasori can also control living people as puppets, even against their will, if they are weakened enough. His usage of puppets was at such a high level that he made mere techniques appear as an artistic performance, which he called his "Red Secret Technique".&#91;18&#93;

Human Puppetry[]

Main article: Human Puppet
Sasori's puppets were unique in that they were made from the still-living bodies of humans. These human puppets were more versatile than regular puppets, since, in addition to having many dangerous devices installed within them (as is common with regular puppets), they were also able to use chakra and perform any techniques or kekkei genkai that they possessed during their life. Being the developer of this form of puppets, Sasori is also the only one who knows how to create them.

Hiruko[]

Main article: Hiruko

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Sasori's puppet armour: Hiruko.
 		 	 
In the anime, Hiruko is said to have been a human puppet from a once famous Sunagakure shinobi that Sasori converted upon death. Hiruko was Sasori's eleventh puppet,&#91;19&#93; and used as both a weapon and armour. Having worn the puppet, Hiruko served as a means to eliminate the puppeteer's weakness of being a separate and exposed target.&#91;20&#93; Never having to leave from within the puppet, Sasori managed to use his techniques through it, such as the Sand Clone&#91;21&#93; and chakra threads.&#91;22&#93; Hiruko had a long mechanical, scorpion-like tail (an allusion to Sasori's name meaning "scorpion") extending from the mouth of what appeared to be a demon mask on its back, of which Chiyo said was a recent addition by Sasori to act as an extra defence to a weak point in the puppet. The tail worked as Hiruko's main offensive weapon and was laced with Sasori's speciality poison. The tail could also be used defensively by spinning around Hiruko's body at a rapid speed; its sturdiness was well known as Chiyo was shocked when the Third Kazekage puppet was able to break it easily. Hiruko's left arm was also rigged with a projectile launcher capable of firing poisoned shrapnel and needles,&#91;23&#93; and its mouth could also be used to serve a similar function of firing poisoned needles.

As Hiruko was one of his favourite puppets, Sasori adorned it in Akatsuki attire for nearly the entirety of his tenure in the organisation. Because of this, only certain members like Orochimaru, Deidara, or relatives like Chiyo knew Sasori's true face while others like Zetsu and Kabuto had no idea that Hiruko was not his actual body. While within Hiruko, Sasori maintains the ability to see through the puppet’s eyes and speak through it in a deeper and hoarser voice.

Third Kazekage[]

Main article: Third Kazekage (puppet)

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The Third Kazekage as Sasori's puppet.
 		 	 
Sasori's favourite human puppet was the Third Kazekage,&#91;24&#93;&#91;25&#93; which retained its Magnet Release, which in turn grants Sasori access to the Iron Sand techniques. When mixed with Sasori's poison, the Iron Sand was given a more lethal edge. The Iron Sand could also be used to fill up the joints of other puppets, thus immobilising them. Due to the Iron Sand being derived from the Third's ability to convert chakra to magnetism, this grants Sasori immunity from metallic weapons. The Third's puppet's right arm held several poisoned blades, while the left arm could open up to reveal several summoning seals that summoned thousands of similar arms to attack the target. These arms were capable of crushing an opponent, emitting poisonous gas clouds, and releasing wires that dragged the opponent into the gas cloud. If these arms were cut off, a small buzz-saw took their place.

Puppet Body[]

Main article: Sasori (puppet)

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Sasori's puppet body.
 		 	 
Although Sasori was thirty-five years old, he maintained the appearance of a teenage boy. His unnaturally young appearance was a product of the immortalisation of his design. Aside from his core, Sasori's body was actually a puppet&#91;26&#93; and it is suggested in the manga that Sasori created more than one puppet body in his image. In place of his intestines was a thick cable coiled around a pole, allowing him to use it as a stinger and retract it if necessary. Attached to his back was a scroll holder, containing four scrolls that stored extra armament. The first scroll allowed him to expel powerful streams of fire, and the second scroll was used to store numerous puppets for the Red Secret Technique: Performance of a Hundred Puppets. The capabilities of the third and fourth scrolls were not revealed in the manga, though in the anime, the fourth scroll was used to fire jets of water with enough force to cut through rock. Sasori also has a pair of poles attached to the back of his hips, each equipped with five large blades that could spin like a propeller, granting him both an equipage for greater speed and a monstrous close combat weapon. Sasori also had pipes on each of his palms that could spew out intense fire, hot enough to melt rock, or, in the anime, powerful water jets with such pressure that they were capable of cutting through rock. Being a fully-armed puppet himself, Sasori did not suffer the weakness of being vulnerable to close-range combat that other puppeteers suffer. When smashed apart, he could simply draw the pieces back together. Additionally, Sasori could transfer his core to other puppets in a split second, allowing him to abandon a body that was damaged beyond repair.

Despite being loaded with weapons, Sasori kept them (and his true form) hidden within his Akatsuki robes, which were large enough to conceal them without problem. Curiously, when using "himself", Sasori's eyes were always wide open, giving him a somewhat insane look. In contrast, prior to revealing his puppet body, Sasori's eyes were always half-closed, making him appear calmer and more aloof. Sasori had claimed that he had not used "himself" since joining Akatsuki, until his last battle with his grandmother and Sakura Haruno.

Installed in the right part of Sasori's chest was a mechanism that could spin numerous chakra threads, allowing him to exceed his previous capabilities and control well over a hundred puppets. Doing so also allows him to use his Red Secret Technique: Performance of a Hundred Puppets. With it, Sasori was given a drastic advantage over other puppeteers, having once taken down a small nation with it. The left part of Sasori's chest held the lone human part of him and thus, the only necessary part of his body capable of controlling chakra: a cylinder-shaped device containing his 'core' (核&#44; kaku).

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The only living part left of Sasori: his "core of living flesh".
 		 	 
Because Sasori's core was the only living part of his body that he still contained, his puppet body was virtually indestructible, allowing him to survive the poison mist Kankurō bombarded him with, as well as the impact from Sakura's punches. As such, the core was his only weakness and its destruction would mean his death. He was also able to fight for extended periods of time without hindrances that would normally affect a human's body, such as fatigue, muscle failure, loss of blood, wounds, or pain. His conversion has allowed him to forgo the need for food.&#91;1&#93; Despite removing all of his organs, Sasori's puppet body maintained awareness and other natural faculties, such as the ability to speak, see, and hear. After his death, Kankurō would later take the body and use it as his puppet.

Intelligence[]

Repeatedly, Sasori has demonstrated to be a highly analytical and cunning man, able to handle situations with various traps and misdirection. He is also shown to quickly determine his opponent's strengths and combat methods. Like his grandmother, Sasori has a great knowledge of the human body, as shown from his brainwashing technique and his mastery over creating different types of poisons. His unique poisons, that he laced nearly every weapon in his arsenal with, took effect instantly, and one such poison could kill the target after three days of suffering; according to Sakura, this poison is refined with heavy metals, which intrude the muscles and destroy healthy cells.&#91;27&#93; This poison was so complex that Sasori himself acknowledged that no one in Sunagakure could counter it and believed its complexity made it incurable altogether. However, to his surprise, Sakura came up with a successful antidote for the poison; Sasori even noted that creating the antidote requires extreme precision, with no room for failure, something difficult even for himself.

Stats[]

Databook
	
Ninjutsu
	
Taijutsu
	
Genjutsu
	
Intelligence
	
Strength
	
Speed
	
Stamina
	
Hand seals
	
Total
	

Third
	
5
	
4
	
4
	
5
	
3
	
4.5
	
5
	
4
	
34.5
	

Part I[]

Sasuke Recovery Mission[]

Main article: Sasuke Recovery Mission
At the end of Part I, Sasori made a cameo appearance as a silhouette during the Akatsuki gathering where they discussed Orochimaru's taking of Sasuke Uchiha, as well as the capturing of the Nine-Tails and the furthering of their plans.

The Fallen Castle[]

Main article: The Fallen Castle
Later, in the anime, Sasori and Deidara met with Hidan and Kakuzu to discuss their new missions. It was decided that Sasori and Deidara would take the war mission.&#91;28&#93; The duo then went to the Land of This, a small nation, with the intent of destroying it to spread the reputation of the Akatsuki. After Deidara handled the initial attack with a series of explosions, Sasori unleashed his army of puppets. During the attack, Sasori personally went after and killed the daimyō. After doing so, he was confronted by the late daimyō's retainer Tatewaki. While the samurai managed to pressure Sasori, he was ultimately poisoned by several of Sasori's poisoned senbon. By dusk, the nation was destroyed, making Sasori and Deidara's mission a success.&#91;29&#93;

Part II[]

Kazekage Rescue Mission[]

Main article: Kazekage Rescue Mission

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Sasori and Deidara travelling to Suna to capture Gaara.
 		 	 
At the start of Part II, Sasori, hidden in his puppet, Hiruko, returned to his former village, Sunagakure, with Deidara to capture the One-Tailed Shukaku's jinchūriki, and the Fifth Kazekage, Gaara. Both the Akatsuki members easily penetrated Suna's defences, as the village was betrayed by one of Sasori's own subordinates, Yūra. After Deidara captured Gaara, the Kazekage's elder brother, Kankurō, attempted to stop the Akatsuki duo from fleeing. But Sasori confronted him so that Deidara could go on ahead unopposed and made quick work of Kankurō, poisoning and nearly killing him, and easily destroying his puppets, as he had pre-existing knowledge of their secrets. After the Akatsuki members extracted and sealed the One-Tailed Shukaku from Gaara at the Akatsuki hideout, Sasori and Deidara were left in charge by their leader of defeating the pursuing Team 7 and Sasori's grandmother, Chiyo. As Deidara led Naruto Uzumaki and Kakashi Hatake away using Gaara's dead body as bait, Sasori was left to face Sakura Haruno and his grandmother Chiyo.

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Sasori using the Third Kazekage and his ability, the Iron Sand.
 		 	 
Soon after the battle began, with Chiyo controlling her as a puppet, Sakura was able to destroy Sasori's puppet, Hiruko. As Sasori emerged from Hiruko's remains and revealed his true self, Chiyo and Sakura were shocked to see his youthful face, considering that he had left Sunagakure over twenty years ago, yet looked so young. Not wasting any time, however, Sasori brought out his Third Kazekage puppet, who he revealed to be his favourite, as the Third was the hardest to kill and add to his collection. Since the Third Kazekage was a human puppet, Sasori was able use its various Iron Sand abilities to attack and overwhelm Chiyo and Sakura. To try and combat the Kazekage, Chiyo brought out the first puppets Sasori ever created Mother and Father. Although Chiyo had since equipped them with extra weapons and defences, the Kazekage's puppet's Iron Sand quickly disabled the two puppets, and Chiyo's arm as well. Acting on her own, Sakura demolished the Kazekage puppet after picking up on its movements and using herself as bait to lower Sasori's guard.

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Sasori attacking Sakura and Chiyo.
 		 	 
With the loss of the Kazekage puppet, Sasori revealed the reason behind his young look: his own human puppet body, which itself was fitted with numerous weapons and traps laced with poison. Sakura eventually managed to break apart his puppet body, but missed his core, allowing him to reassemble himself. Chiyo then brought out her own ten puppets in an attempt to level the playing field. Sasori used his Red Secret Technique: Performance of a Hundred Puppets, allowing him to control ten times as many puppets as Chiyo. Since Chiyo's puppets were designed to work together, a trait lacking with all of Sasori's puppets, her puppets fared far better than his, although they were eventually overwhelmed by Sasori's sheer numbers. During the battle, Chiyo attempted to seal Sasori's chakra with a special orb from one of her puppets, but missed his core — the only living part of his body and the source of his chakra — and only trapped his puppet body. As Chiyo and Sakura were distracted by his summoned puppets, Sasori was revealed to have transferred the cylindrical container housing his core, into another one of his own puppets, possessing his face's likeness, before the seal nailed his original body to a wall.

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Sasori dying in the embrace of his "parents".
 		 	 
Using the seal as a distraction, Sasori, in his new puppet body, attempted a sneak attack on Chiyo. However, Sakura took the sword's attack from Sasori for Chiyo. Sasori's katana pierced Sakura's abdomen, and since the blade itself was coated in poison, Sasori stated that she would either succumb to the poison or bleed to death. As Sasori prepared to attack again, it gave Chiyo a chance to use Mother and Father to stab him through his core in the form of an embrace. As Chiyo ran to Sakura's almost lifeless body, she began to try and heal her, to which Sasori, even in his dying state, laughed in amusement at her seemingly senile attempt to save Sakura, stating that it was far too late for any form of medical ninjutsu. When Chiyo revealed the true nature of her technique, Sasori believed it impossible until Sakura awoke.

Before dying, as a reward to Sakura for defeating him, Sasori informed her of a spy that he had within his former Akatsuki partner, Orochimaru's, ranks, and told her to meet him ten days from then at noon at the Tenchi Bridge. When Sasori died, Chiyo implied that Sasori could have avoided her last attack, but for some reason he chose not to. &#91;30&#93;

Power[]

Main article: Power
In the anime, Sasori is summoned by Kabuto to battle Team Kakashi, who are investigating the incident which happened in the Tonika Village and at The Hole. However, after being summoned, Sasori's coffin vanished, leading Kabuto to question whether or not the Impure World Reincarnation was still incomplete.&#91;31&#93;

Fourth Shinobi World War: Countdown[]

Main article: Fourth Shinobi World War: Countdown
In an attempt to both impede Tobi and coerce him into joining forces during their initial encounter, Kabuto Yakushi demonstrated his capabilities by reincarnating many of the deceased members of Akatsuki, including Sasori, using Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation.&#91;32&#93;

Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation[]

Main article: Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Sasori reincarnated, alongside other Akatsuki members.
 		 	 
Assigned to the Surprise Attack and Diversion Platoon, Sasori was tasked with disrupting the Allied Shinobi Forces by raiding the enemy, as the Fourth Shinobi World War commenced. After discerning that Akatsuki had fallen with only Zetsu, and his replacement, Tobi remaining, their group mobilised atop Deidara's clay birds, where they pursue the three remaining members of the Infiltration and Reconnaissance Party.

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Sasori prepares to confront the Surprise Attack Division.
 		 	 
Irritated by the adversaries scurrying about as they attempt to evade them, the group was eventually taken captive nonetheless. Sasori then forcefully manipulated the booby-trapped Muta Aburame, so as to attack the opposing Surprise Attack Division without their knowledge, while taking Zaji hostage. However, the enemy uncovered the trap and evaded the blast, forcing him to engage them using the controlled Tokuma Hyūga and Ranka, but Omoi soon managed to free them both. After Kankurō connected his own chakra threads to those of Sasori's, which had just been severed, the latter is pulled downwards, and Ittan raised the terrain he had just lowered, causing him to collide with Deidara. Recuperating, he complimented Kankurō's improvement and later remarked that he had obtained the immortal body he had always desired, upon seeing the former reveal his old body. Sasori then manipulated Shin in avoiding Omoi and Kankurō's attacks, before Deidara detonated the clay placed inside of Shin.

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Sasori is freed from the Impure World Reincarnation.
 		 	 
Expounding on his knowledge of Root, he stated that their ideals to become emotionless were similar to his own endeavours, whilst Shin reformed. However, struck from behind by an enraged Sai's attack, both he and Deidara are then contained by Kankurō's puppets. As Shin deconstructed, after his soul was set free, Sasori noted that he couldn't feel any response from his threads. When Kankurō explained that strength came from his soul, and not in spite of it, as he poured his heart and soul into his creations, Sasori emotionally accepted that his puppets and techniques were what immortalised him. Starting to deconstruct, he entrusted his Mother and Father puppets to Kankurō, telling him to pass them down to future generations. With his soul freed, only a pile of debris, and the corpse of the unknown individual who was used as part of the ritual remained.

Legacy[]

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The symbol Sasori placed on the puppets he created.
 		 	 
At the time of his death, Sasori had not yet captured his assigned tailed beast. A short dialogue between himself and Deidara suggested that Sasori did not even know what beast he had been assigned to target.&#91;33&#93; However, after his death, Tobi took his place as Deidara's new partner and his ring in Akatsuki, and, later, he captured the Three-Tails, thereby suggesting that the beast was Sasori's target.

However, due to the preservation of his body, Sasori's influence on future events was not over with his death. Prior to the events at the Five Kage Summit, Kankurō recovered Sasori's body to replace his usual puppets. It seems that some modifications have been made to his body since Sasori's death, although it is unknown if certain mechanisms were previously installed, but were not shown prior to Sasori's death. Using the Sasori puppet to fight the reincarnated Sasori, Kankurō manages to give Sasori closure by stating he achieved his immortality through all the puppets he made.

In Other Media[]

Movies[]

Road to Ninja: Naruto the Movie[]

Main article: Road to Ninja: Naruto the Movie
An alternate version of Sasori appears in the Genjutsu World. Unlike the real version of Sasori, this version doesn't use Human Puppets but ordinary puppets instead. However, he apparently made himself into a puppet to preserve his youth, much like the real-world counterpart.

Video Games[]

Sasori is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name	Japanese release	English release	
Jumputi Heroes	28 March 2018		
Naruto Mobile	2016	2016	
Naruto Shippūden: Clash of Ninja Revolution 3		17 November 2009	
Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Ninja Taisen! EX	22 February 2007		
Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Ninja Taisen! EX 2	29 November 2007		
Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Ninja Taisen! EX 3	27 November 2008		
Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Ninja Taisen! Special	2 December 2010		
Naruto Shippūden: Legends: Akatsuki Rising		6 October 2009	
Naruto Shippūden: Ninja Council 4	19 July 2007	2 June 2009	
Naruto Shippūden: Ninja Destiny 2	24 April 2008	15 September 2009	
Naruto Shippūden: Ninja Destiny 3	28 April 2009		
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja 4	5 April 2007	24 March 2009	
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja 5	20 December 2007	27 November 2009	
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Blazing	14 July 2016	24 August 2016	
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Heroes 3	10 December 2009	11 May 2010	
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Impact	20 October 2011	18 October 2011	
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 2	21 October 2010	19 October 2010	
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 3	18 April 2013	5 March 2013	
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4	4 February 2016	9 February 2016	
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Generations	23 February 2012	13 March 2012	
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Revolution	11 September 2014	16 September 2014	
Naruto to Boruto: Shinobi Striker	30 August 2018	31 August 2018	
Naruto x Boruto: Ninja Tribes	June 2019	June 2019	
Naruto x Boruto: Ninja Voltage	22 November 2017	22 November 2017	
Naruto x Boruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm Connections	16 November 2023	17 November 2023	
Naruto: Shinobi Collection	2014		
Naruto: Shinobi Collection Shippū Ranbu	27 July 2015		
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online	14 April 2013	20 July 2016	

Trivia[]

Springtime of Youth
	
The Springtime of Youth wiki has an article about this topic:
Sasori

	

The name "Sasori" (蠍) means "scorpion".

Sasori had the same birth date as Masashi Kishimoto.

Additionally, his birth date, November 8, makes Sasori's Western astrological sign Scorpio, the scorpion. His alias of the Red Sand may carry connotations towards the planet Mars, traditional ruler of the sign.

Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Sasori show that he was 147.5&#160;cm when his friend Komushi died.

According to the databook(s):
His hobby was remodelling his puppet collection.

Sasori wished to fight Monzaemon Chikamatsu.

Sasori doesn't need food.

Sasori had completed 72 official missions in total: 5 D-rank, 12 C-rank, 16 B-rank, 29 A-rank, 10 S-rank.

Sasori's favourite phrase was "Eternal beauty" (永久の美&#44; Eikyū no Utsukushī).

Sasori had one of the longest battle times in the anime — spanning approximately 8 episodes — giving him roughly about three hours of battle screen-time.

In the first poll he was in (the 6th overall poll), he placed 6th on the list.&#91;34&#93; In the second poll, he placed 8th.&#91;35&#93;

Sasori made a brief appearance in the Naruto: Shippūden episode 129 omake, walking past Sakura Haruno and Naruto Uzumaki in a festival, glancing at the latter.

Sasori and his former partners Orochimaru and Deidara all had a role in the deaths of three of the Kazekage. Sasori killed the Third, Orochimaru killed the Fourth, and Deidara was responsible for the Fifth. Chiyo noted this when she confronted Sasori's attack on the Kazekage.

Quotes[]

(To Kankurō) "Since I don't like to wait or make people wait… I'll end this quickly."&#91;36&#93;

(To Kankurō) "For my name to be known all the way down to a kid like you… is an honour."&#91;3&#93;

(To Deidara) "What? You call those explosions fine art? Fine art is something wonderful that's left long into the future… eternal beauty."&#91;13&#93;

(About Chiyo) "Great puppet masters think alike, I suppose."&#91;37&#93;

(To Chiyo) "That is a considerable amount of puppets. But… [Proceeds to summon one hundred puppets of his own] With these, I took down a whole nation!"&#91;38&#93;

(About Chiyo and Sakura) "How'll I explain this… How long it took me to take down a little girl and an old hag… That I even had to use my last trick…"&#91;39&#93;

(To Sakura) "Women like to do useless things don't they… Even connected by blood ties as we are, I won't feel a thing if grandma dies here. My heart… is just like this body…"&#91;40&#93;

(To Sakura) "Want to try to become like this too? If you do then you'll probably get what I'm saying. A body that does not decay… a puppet body can be rebuilt over and over… unfettered by a mortal lifespan."&#91;41&#93;

(To Sakura) "I would describe myself as a human being who could not become a complete puppet, I am an unfinished puppet, whose lifeless frame still contains a beating heart at its core. I am neither dead, nor am I alive."&#91;42&#93;

(Upon seeing Kankurō using his puppet body) "My old puppet body… Suddenly it all seems so pointless. I now have the body I've always desired, one that will never rot or decay. I've truly become a puppet in every sense of the word."&#91;43&#93;

(To Kankurō) "Kankurō… I want you to have my "Mother" and "Father" puppets as well… and when you die, pass them both on… to the next generation."&#91;44&#93;

References[]

↑ 1.0 1.1 Sha no Sho, pages 80-83

↑ 2.0 2.1 Jin no Sho, page 99

↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 Naruto chapter 251, page 4

↑ Naruto chapter 253, page 14

↑ Third Databook, page 338

↑ Naruto: Shippūden episode 319

↑ 7.0 7.1 Naruto chapter 267, page 3

↑ Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Revolution OVA; Creation of Akatsuki

↑ Naruto chapter 271, page 7

↑ Naruto chapter 267, page 4

↑ Naruto: Shippūden episode 457

↑ Naruto chapter 265, page 12

↑ 13.0 13.1 Naruto chapter 264, page 7

↑ Naruto chapter 584, page 14

↑ 15.0 15.1 Naruto chapter 251, page 3

↑ Naruto chapter 265, page 11

↑ Naruto chapter 264 page 18, panel 6

↑ Naruto chapter 518, page 4

↑ Akatsuki Hiden: Evil Flowers in Full Bloom

↑ Naruto chapter 265, page 4

↑ Naruto: Shippuden episode 8

↑ Naruto: Shippuden episode 457

↑ Naruto chapter 265, page 15

↑ Naruto chapter 266, page 17

↑ Naruto chapter 268, page 11

↑ Naruto chapter 271, page 9

↑ Naruto: Shippūden episode 11

↑ Naruto: Shippūden episode 309

↑ Naruto: Shippūden episode 310

↑ Naruto chapter 275, page 16

↑ Naruto: Shippūden episode 290

↑ Naruto chapter 489, pages 18-20

↑ Naruto chapter 251, page 19

↑ Naruto chapter 292, pages 1-2

↑ Naruto chapter 531, pages 1-2

↑ Naruto chapter 250, page 13

↑ Naruto chapter 269, page 5

↑ Naruto chapter 272, pages 15-16

↑ Naruto chapter 272, page 16

↑ Naruto chapter 275, page 6

↑ Naruto chapter 275, page 7

↑ Naruto chapter 275, page 9

↑ Naruto chapter 518, page 5

↑ Naruto chapter 519, pages 2-3